Linux Systems Administration
Please edit this file by adding the solution commands on the line below the prompt.
Save and submit the completed file for your homework submission.
Step 1: Ensure/Double Check Permissions on Sensitive Files
Permissions on /etc/shadow should allow only root read and write access.
Command to inspect permissions: ls -l /etc/shadow
Command to set permissions (if needed): sudo chmod 600 /etc/shadow
Permissions on /etc/gshadow should allow only root read and write access.
Command to inspect permissions: ls -l /etc/gshadow
Command to set permissions (if needed): sudo chmod 600 /etc/shadow
Permissions on /etc/group should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access 
only.
Command to inspect permissions: ls -l /etc/group
Command to set permissions (if needed): sudo chmod 644 /etc/group
Permissions on /etc/passwd should allow root read and write access, and allow everyone else read access 
only.
Command to inspect permissions: ls -l /etc/passwd
Command to set permissions (if needed): sudo chmod 644 /etc/passwd
Step 2: Create User Accounts
Add user accounts for sam, joe, amy, sara, and admin.
Command to add each user account (include all five users): 1. sudo adduser sam 2. sudo adduser joe 3. 
sudo adduser amy 4. sudo adduser sara 5. sudo adduser admin
Ensure that only the admin has general sudo access.
Command to add admin to the sudo group: sudo adduser -aG admin sudo admin
Step 3: Create User Group and Collaborative Folder
Add an engineers group to the system.
Command to add group: sudo groupadd engineers
Add users sam, joe, amy, and sara to the managed group.
Command to add users to engineers group (include all four users): 1. sudo usermod -aG engineers sam 2. 
sudo usermod -aG engineers joe 3. sudo usermod -aG engineers amy 4. sudo usermod -aG engineers sara
Create a shared folder for this group at /home/engineers.
Command to create the shared folder: sudo mkdir engineers sudo groupadd engineers
Change ownership on the new engineers' shared folder to the engineers group.
Command to change ownership of engineer's shared folder to engineer group: sudo chown root:root engineers
Step 4: Lynis Auditing
Command to install Lynis: sudo apt install lynis
Command to see documentation and instructions: sudo lynis show help
Command to run an audit: sudo lynis audit system
Provide a report from the Lynis output on what can be done to harden the system.
Screenshot of report output:
Bonus
Command to install chkrootkit: sudo apt install chkrootkit
Command to see documentation and instructions: man chkrootkit
Command to run expert mode:sudo chkrootkit -x
Provide a report from the chrootkit output on what can be done to harden the system.


